Hello everybody. My name is Alexandr today I am going to tell you about visualization library D3.js. d3 stands for Data driven documents. This is quiet popular library. If you search it on google it will be in top 3 or top 5. Now at their git account there are about 125 contributors. It has started about 9   years ago and has about 4000 commits. Library is popular and current version is 5.14. they very often lunch new releases there about 260 releases. They constantly make improvements, and it a great tool. If look at first slide of presentation and may see Earth image. This object was made by this library, as you may see it is quite nice. So, let see what we have. 
What id D3.js. D3.js is a JavaScript library for manipulating documents base on data. It uses html, SVG and CSS. There no built-in tools or propriate technologies.  It focuses on browsers, HTML web standards, it uses CSS. If in CSS comes in features, you put in your project and it will be supported. 
So, there a lot of life in it, great interaction. It is spinning around, all was done by this library. You my see colors and size are changing. As you may see D3 allows you to bind arbitrary data to Document Object Model. Manipulation is efficient and it supports large data set.  Data sources could be CVS, JSON. You can transfer your data from database to the client java script put it in D3.js and generate bars, charts, donuts. As you wish using your imagination. This object uses transitions, it spins around, quite awesome. 
So, selections. Let see how simple commands in this tool make great thing. For example, you a task to make you paragraphs elements blue in your document. If you use pure JS, you would loop all your tags and set them property color to blue. So, you get like four lines of code. Using d3 tool you would put d3 dot select all dot, p dot style color blur. And you get the same result in one line of code. This is powerful feature which lets us manipulate Dom quit easily. The next. Enter and exit. This tool lets us create new nodes for incoming data. So here we say D three, select body, select all and bind array of numbers. Here are six numbers. Add P tag put some text. And we get paraphs. Got number 4, Got number  8, got number 15. D in this case stands for every item od array of data. Let’s move on. And our next slide is about making simple chart using this library. 
If need to make a chart on your own, without using any library or framework, what you would do.  You would have to generate SVG blocks. You would have to put size, coordinates, calculate coordinates according to the previous blocks. You would have to put X coordinate, Y coordinate. That you would have to put text on a bar with X and Y coordinates. So, every item would have its own coordinates on SVG elements. Here what we have using this library. We have an array of data. There are on, two, three, four, five, six numbers. And here is the code which generates our chart. So we say select chart. We want a chart. Then select All div. we put data between div. enter binds array to SVG. We have an enter It is loop for data. We have a style width. We d, which id every item of an array, and px that is pixels. Than goes text with D on our bar chart. So it is time to see what we get. There lines of code generate six bars of blur color with nice little text on every bar. And we don not bother with X, Y coordinates setting their X,Y values. Just as simple as that. You just need to find right tool , find right commands and get a result. I strongly recommend you to use D3 JS library.it is great visualization tool. 
Than you for attention and good Bay.



